hey everyone Leslie Montgomery again
part 4 of our Hong Kong history overview
series a free public service brought to
you by the China history podcast.com we
left off last time with the Treaty of
Nanjing June 26 1897 sperry day the
Legislative Council and Executive
Council let go and xqo are being set up
them at yet functional between January
1841 with the convention of trend B and
February 1842 when Sir Henry returned to
Hong Kong to take over formal leadership
of the colony the man in charge had been
the superintendent of trade kept in
Charles Eliot and were specifically
Elliot's deputy Alexander Robert
Johnston immortalized in the Wanchai
district with Johnston Road it had been
left up to Johnston and the chief
magistrate Captain William Kane he I
mentioned before Kane rode fame to
administer this barren Rock with hardly
a house upon it by the time of
Johnston's first informal census of Hong
Kong they counted four thousand three
hundred and fifty people on land and
another couple thousand who lived on
their boats there were perhaps another
eight hundred Chinese merchants who had
emigrated to Hong Kong from China and
set up shop there mostly serving as cogs
and the wheels of commerce to some
extent or another and every day a few
hundred laborers came across the harbor
from various points in Kowloon and
worked in construction or just selling
their mussels on a daily basis this is
going to change real fast the largest
Chinese community was at the time
located out in Stanley that was the
center of the thriving market serving
all the fishermen and tradesmen who
part of the industry and inhabited the
south side of the island by 1842 just a
year later the population swelled to
about 15 or 20,000 real colonial looking
buildings began to go up along Queens
Road in and around the Central District
not only Chinese were flocking to Hong
Kong but other British Americans and
Europeans as well even though in the
1840s it was still a little premature
people saw Hong Kong had a potential
multitude of uses from which profits
could be derived no matter in commerce
trade services or Christianity Charles
Eliot was further assured that using
Hong Kong as the base of all British
trading and commercial operations was a
much better choice than the east coast
of China they were still plenty of
people around South Guangdong and in
London saying you know we never should
have taken this place over Joe shine you
know the fact that Hong Kong was as
barren as it was actually made the job
of the British that much easier had they
gone and done it like Lord Palmerston
and others were calling for they'd be
trying to assume control over a place
like Joe Shan that was already a mature
place with people living there since
ancient times so going in and just
taking the place over like they were now
doing in Hong Kong was not such a sure
thing
1841 was a rough year in Hong Kong
natural disasters tropical sicknesses
fires and you name it the beginnings of
colonial Hong Kong history we're not so
easy under the circumstances in fact
it's really rough going in the early
years and those who felt this whole
thing was turning into a disaster we're
not a small minority the first 10 15
years of the crown colonies existence
were not easy at all a lot of
influential and high up people in both
Hong Kong and in England we're still
saying should have gone with Joe Shan
for such a
Laureus and spectacular harbour such as
Hong Kong the harbour master was de
rigueur therefore the governor was
joined by one William Petter who all
local residents and frequent visitors to
Hong Kong will know of from petter
Street and central as I mentioned last
time the first Street that was built was
Queens Road also in central this was
waterfront property back then now of
course you know after so much land
reclamation you have Devo and con rock
roads in between Queens Road and Hong
Kong harbour the first land sale was
held June 14th 1841 up till then and
including these first land auctions they
were sort of shoot-from-the-hip kind of
processes
who knew in 1841 or even 1842 what this
property would be worth one day people
caught on real fast though and there was
a vast amount of confusion and acrimony
to follow once the how shall we say the
proper authorities came in and saw what
a mess had been made of this initial
land auction and sorting everything out
later on as I said was a real headache
for some so this first big land auction
was a 2 mile long
parcel from where Central Market is up
the street from the IFC complex and it
ran all the way to Wan Chai to where the
Ratan G Hospital is near the Dyle
building there were Johnston and
Hennessy roads start to come together
the sale was organized for something
like hundred foot Lots you know with
Road and frontage to the harbour now
folks Hong Kong real estate right now is
the Year of the Dragon starts to wind
down is some of the priciest in the
whole world
maybe the whole galaxy and this tract of
land that Johnston serving as
administrator of the colony remember
Pottinger is on his way but he hasn't
shown up in Hong Kong yet so Johnston is
in charge and he's getting mixed
messages and when all this was going
down back in 1841
Alexander Graham Bell still had six
years before he was born and 30
four years to go before the telephone is
patented in 1875
so Johnston is casually putting this
tract of land on the market well as far
as Hong Kong commercial real estate goes
baby this is the whole enchilada yeah
there's a whole bunch of other pricey
parts of Hong Kong here and there but
this one Queens Road from the IFC to Wan
Chai I don't know if there are numbers
high enough to add up to what that's all
worth today
well probably I can only say with the
highest degree of certainty that the
ones who own all that property today are
millionaires for sure so AR Johnston
held this historic land sale and I won't
go into details but when the folks back
in London heard this they weren't happy
you did what you know as far as the
British crowd was concerned land sales
that was going to be the greatest
revenue generator of all but Elliott's
and even Pottinger knew they needed some
momentum to get this whole Hong Kong
trading Emporium idea up and running and
holding this big land sale was a
surefire way to get all the major
players Jardine Matheson dent everybody
to get them to forget about Canton and
see the future in Hong Kong some
historians say Johnston was no fool he
was left in charge at a very dicey
moment in time with respect to Hong Kong
in retrospect he didn't do anything
wrong anyways as I said this land sales
thing is gonna come back and haunt a few
people later on so December 2nd 1842 the
ink has been dry on the Treaty of
Nanjing for about 90 days now this is
when Sir Henry Pottinger decided to part
that great city and he arrives back in
Hong Kong and he ruled with the Cabal
consisting of Johnston Kane and one john
robert morrison son of the legendary
missionary in china scholar robert
morrison john morrison the son died
tragically young 29 years old in August
he was the China expert of the group
administering Hong Kong and his loss
left a huge vacuum as far as being able
to effortlessly reach out to the Chinese
communities
this was an early blow to the wheels of
initial progress in planning that summer
of 1843 was particularly dreadful for
the disease that swept through Hong Kong
John Morrison was one of so many of
these Europeans just one after the other
dropping dead from all these tropical
diseases malaria chief among them
everyone on the island felt the ravages
of these plagues that would hit time and
time again
anyways Morrison Hill Road everybody
named after John Robert Morrison both he
and his father whose amazing life will
feature later on in another podcast are
they're both buried in a Macau Cemetery
Pottinger wasn't cut out for the
challenges of being Hong Kong's chief
executive in 1843 he and had enough and
resigned to Lord Aberdeen in July much
to his chagrin he had to remain in
charge until 1845 when his successor
could be you know in place to take over
one of the many executive decisions made
by Pottenger was the name of the
settlement basically central in those
parts up and down Queens Road that head
up till 1843 been referred to as Queens
town Pottinger renamed the area of
victoria and aside from the day-to-day
drudgery of decision-making pottinger's
time was spent trying to figure out some
sort of an equitable and face-saving
solution to all the land sales all
parties with interests in this property
and they a huge amounts at stake you
know the military to they just didn't
sit by let all the Jardine's and dents
get all the choicest slices of the North
Shore's of Hong Kong Island you know
right on this magnificent Harbor Kowloon
the new territories and all of China
lying beyond the hills they wanted their
peace too so pas de jure was left
to untangle this mess and ultimately
they came to a conclusion you know
offering 75 year leases and and not
everyone walked away happy
so his era ended quickly Sir Henry
Pottinger was Hong Kong's first governor
however Captain Charles Eliot though not
ever serving officially as governor
certainly carried out the
responsibilities of the chief executive
in pottinger's successor Sir John Davis
arrived in Hong Kong in May 1844 it was
Sir John Davis who was second in command
during the Napier mission when Lord
Napier succumbed to his fevers in
October 1834 it was Davis the future
second governor who became the top guy
he was also EXCI scindia company so in
short he was perfectly suited to take
over from Pottinger his job was to go
clean everything up make the place work
or get it on its way to working and all
the commercial interests were always
disappointed he was no friend of the
Taipans he would leave Hong Kong in May
of 1848 a detested man in the community
he was detested because he had to make
all the hard and unpopular decisions of
the time and not a consensus-builder
that's for sure well like I said in the
last episode I think he got a mountain
named after him
one good thing credited to Governor
Davis the government donated a small
tract of land where an ice house was
built to manufacture ice that could be
dragged back to the you know early
inhabitants dwellings to help deal with
the horrible hideous heat this is where
ice house Street winds around today
happy valley racecourse also have
governor Davis to thank for that - boy I
got that thing up and running fast Hong
Kong's first treasurer Robert Montgomery
Martin he served from January 1844 to
July 1845 he was a writer of some repute
and shortly upon his arrival in Hong
Kong he had expressed some rather
negative views but the islands prospects
in the 1840s
he said quote there was no trade of any
noticeable extent in Hong Kong the
principal mercantile firms are those
engaged in the opium trade which they
frankly admit is the only trade Hong
Kong will ever possess there is scarcely
a firm in the island but would be glad
to get back half the money they have
expended in the colony and retire from
the place there does not appear the
slightest probability that under any
circumstances Hong Kong will ever become
a place of trade it is worse than folly
to persist in a course begun an error
and which if continued must eventually
end in disappointment and in national
loss of degradation ouch
them's fighting words mind you Martin
had only been in the colony a few weeks
so this was merely a first impression
but I think he get the main idea someone
else had written of Hong Kong this
remote and completely unimportant
settlement derives its importance only
from it being a diplomatic and military
station mercantile house is now reduced
to ten or twelve buildings
unoccupied Canton and Shanghai are the
principal almost the exclusive Mart's in
China for imports from Europe and India
as well as for exports from China the
sad mistake committed by Sir Henry
Pottenger in choosing for a British
settlement an island as barren as Hong
Kong one of the early visitors to Hong
Kong's guiding rahdert fortune he was a
botanist credited with he was the guy
who brought tea plants from China to
India launched the whole tea industry
over there he wrote of Hong Kong Hong
Kong Bay is one of the finest which I
have ever seen it is eight or ten miles
in length and irregular and breadth in
some places too and another six miles
wide having excellent Anchorage all over
it and perfectly free from hidden
dangers it is completely sheltered by
the mountains of Hong Kong on the south
and by those of the mainland of China on
the
sure landlocked in fact on all sides so
that the shipping can ride out the
heaviest gales with perfect safety
despite this comment about Hong Kong
fortune was among the naysayers who
predicted Hong Kong as a trading centre
would never succeed by early 1844 let go
started to become somewhat of a
functioning body and now ordinances
rules to make society somewhat orderly
began to be passed until this time we
can credit the Pottenger administration
for the initial efforts and leadership
in getting all those necessary things
taken care of like rules regarding trade
channels to handle contracts a fair
justice system yeah you know that is
both feared and admired police
protection had to be addressed to the
extent that there was some semblance of
law and order on the streets and along
the wharves and godowns being built the
British maybe got it from the Romans who
knows but they were they were good at
this stuff you know getting a place set
up and organized the merchant Prince's
Taipans you know whatever you want to
call them they had to be feeling pretty
good so far there were a lot of regrets
you know after so many initial hiccups
that's for sure
but their long hard-won crusade to trade
with China on their terms was starting
to happen and hong kong was on the way
to becoming the bedrock of future
british commercial and political
relations with china it was also going
to be an important military installation
which you know would always be the
guarantor of the colony's safety even
though the 1840s and 50s seemed like a
disaster and worst case scenario piled
up into one everything was slowly being
put in place davis was followed by the
popular governor sir george bottom yes
one in the same is bottom strand and
Shan WAN and Bonham rode in the
mid-levels he was an excellent governor
and did a lot to stabilize things he
lasted until 1854 before he
and was replaced by Sir John Bowring he
of bowring Street in the Jordan district
and from these earliest days this
beautiful indescribable symbiotic
relationship grew between those new
British colonialists and the local
Chinese community almost completely
peopled with newly arrived
thrill-seekers from southern Guangdong
and from as far away as Fujian these
guys who flooded into Hong Kong from
China all knew a good thing when they
saw it they learned early on what kind
of big plans Britain had for this place
so the rush to get in on the ground
floor was intense to say the least
and the British knew right away you know
for whatever job that needed to be done
if a Chinese can do it better faster or
cheaper they just turned whole matters
and developments over to them now
throughout this series for belong it
runs looks like forever at the rate I'm
going I might very often to telling the
story from the more Eurocentric point of
view all of the sources I'm using her in
English so right there that says it all
there were two parallel universes going
on at the same time in Hong Kong and it
all begins right here in the 1830s and
40s actually begins even earlier local
Chinese interaction and cooperation with
the British just didn't spontaneously
start happening around the years leading
up to the opium war Chinese who had the
nerve to come face to face with these
earliest Westerners in the 1617 hundreds
these were the first to see there was
something in it for each other if one
could do certain services for the other
and vice versa so by this time 1840s and
into the 1850s several of these elite
and powerful Chinese families who had
worked with the Westerners over the
decades began to take shape the Chinese
were involved with everything the
British were building and developing the
beauty of the system was that although
they couldn't stand each other both
sides were always cognizant
of the benefits and fortunes to be
earned through mutual cooperation both
local Chinese and European merchants
absolutely love the idea of Hong Kong's
laissez-faire style of capitalism and
how the government's job was simply to
make the place stable and workable and
capitalism would just take care of the
rest what a great idea way back in the
1840s after these men who were all at
the middle of this new Hong Kong
operation you know from the beginning
going back to even before the napier
mission some of these guys went back
geez even to the East India Company days
once they felt secure that China had
been sufficiently threatened enough that
they weren't going to retaliate they
took stock of the situation even back
then they knew this place had
unbelievable potential in a multitude of
ways they knew they had to get this
right the Hong Kong Chinese a number
steadily growing daily they saw this too
but one couldn't exist without the other
so this whole beginning was you know
sort of like the ending a Casablanca
when you know when Rick says to Louie I
think this is the beginning of a
beautiful friendship
well this relationship had its ups and
downs but despite this you know
good-natured contempt for each other it
didn't work out well for both sides and
you know the legacy lives on something
that began right about in how was the
emergence of these comprar doors this
was derived from from portuguese word
the comprar door was the guy inside the
European trading firm who was the
principal interface with all the Chinese
people who the firm was either buying
from or selling to these comprar doors
were very powerful in their day and the
ones who were associated with all the
greatest songs of the day they went on
to become pillars of Hong Kong society
and amassed great fortunes and dynasties
anyways as the city planners began their
great work the nuts and bolts of how to
build all these colonial
buildings it had already been figured
out in Singapore as well as in India so
a lot of the know-how just got
transplanted to Hong Kong this was a
golden time for the real estate
developers and still is 170 years later
in 18-49 with the start of California
Gold Rush Hong Kong became a launching
pad for all those earliest Chinese
immigrants who boarded vessels that took
them across the Pacific to San Francisco
to seek their fortunes and by extension
that of their family in the gold mines
of California and then later on after
that to build all our railroads and
highways so while the governor and his
team were busy making all the
broad-stroke laws and pronouncements and
executive decisions the whole of the
Hong Kong commercial society began to
evolve that included the Triads we spoke
about in episode CHP 72 they thought
they died and went to heaven when they
saw the riches waiting to be had in this
boomtown called Hong Kong that's what it
was a typical boomtown like any other in
some ways those first 10 years 1842 to
1852 like I said they were not easy
looking at it from their handicap of no
hindsight it didn't look so great the
devastation wrought by disease and by
the weather was was wretched indeed
malaria and these you know other
tropical diseases and they could strike
anyone a poor man's blood tasted no less
sweet than that of a rich man it was
obvious the government was making this
thing up as it went along Jardine's
partner alexander matheson had even gone
as far as to admit had they not sunk so
much money into this hong kong operation
they would have just given up the whole
thing and walked away of course you know
later on they were glad they didn't
besides hong kong vying to serve as an
all-in-one solution that china trade
were five other treaty ports so it
wasn't like hong kong just you know
replaced Canton shipping companies they
played no favorites they went wherever
they made the fastest and easiest money
and Hong Kong wasn't you know so quick
out of the
starting gates I didn't mention the
Pirates yet yeah the place was crawling
with pirates a map of the 200 or so
various islands of Hong Kong would make
the perfect pirate treasure map so many
places to hide their work for over a
century these pirates some of them you
know these tanka people who I mentioned
in episode 1 of this Hong Kong history
series people who had you know come to
these waters a very long time ago and
had been living here you know for
generations living on the water like
they did to many of them just sort of
naturally gravitated to piracy there
were some rich pickings moving back and
forth between southern China and Europe
you know not to mention the Spice
Islands so piracy was rampant all over
the South China Sea so freely did the
Pirates rule the waters that it wasn't
unnatural to see pirate attacks against
boats right off the coast of Hong Kong
the first several governors of Hong Kong
had their hands full trying in vain to
deal with this blight it was a nice
little system Britain had developed
going was running quite well it all had
to do with raising money to buy cotton
from the United States and in order to
do that the British merchants had to
sell a lot of British goods in order to
buy this cotton and they did so by
selling the British made goods to Indian
merchants who sold the goods in India
and in order to raise the money to buy
these British goods the Indian opium
producers sold opium to the British and
then the British used the profits from
the opium trade to pay for all this tea
and silk and the Chinese merchants you
know they bought the opium and they made
their own profits and the profits the
British made on the opium trade with
China not only paid for the tea and silk
there was enough left over to finance
the British occupation of India as well
the whole thing was a nice tight circle
of Trade controlled by Great Britain but
it still wasn't enough the Treaty of
Nanjing was hardly the grand bargain it
was meant to be so many things were
made unanswered and now you know late in
the game that we're finding out the
Chinese had outfoxed the British with
respect to purposely allowing certain
things to be written in or taken out of
the Chinese versions and that some
translations were not shall we say up to
snuff so in short the Treaty of Nanjing
left a lot out on the British side and
it still needed to be settled now before
John Bowring became governor of Hong
Kong he served for four years as British
consul in Canton so he came with great
aspirations to serve as an effective
bridge between Britain and China and to
be the one to patch things up which you
know hadn't gone too smoothly but by the
time he arrived in Hong Kong in 1854 he
knew the only thing that was gonna work
was the same thing as last time an
overwhelming show of force and so we get
the Second Opium War their second
anglo-chinese war for reasons as I
explained in an earlier episode covering
the opium or it's also known as the
arrow war let's take a quick revisit
just a skim through the British received
five new ports to trade it well actually
Canton and four new others the British
still found this trade way too
restrictive as you know all the action
was on the interior of China these were
just coastal ports by the time the
British bought their wares or sold their
wares to many other hands touched it
before the end-user purchased it so they
wanted more unrestricted trade governor
bowring trying to curry favor with the
Chinese merchant community offered them
British registry for their vessels the
thinking was they flew a British flag
you know even a flag of convenience
they'd be less apt to get their ship
ransacked by pirates so you know who
operated all around Hong Kong waters a
good number of Chinese who owned boats
took advantage of this special offer and
one of these vessels was called the
arrow you see a lot of pirates they too
to
the author and registered their ships in
Hong Kong - the arrow was supposedly one
of these pirate vessels smuggling
vessels that flew a British flag but
they were just you know they were just
pirates and smugglers
so they got caught up in Chinese waters
at a port near Canton and the local
authorities raided the boat and arrest a
bunch of the crewmen who knows exactly
how it happened there's a number of
stories about who said what where they
actually flying the flag etc etc etc the
British consul in Hong Kong at the time
was Sir Harry Parkes he started a
tit-for-tat diplomatic argument that
ignited the whole war December 1857 the
British forces along with help from both
the Americans and the French they take
the port of Canton and set up an interim
government there and this all led to the
Treaty of Tianjin sign of June 1858
again this is all rehash from episode
CHP six on the opium war all the guys
picking on China except Japan see
Commodore Perry had only sailed into
Oedo Harbor five years prior so Japan
hadn't yet morphed into the militaristic
nation of the early 1900s so Britain
France the US and Russia they all signed
this treaty with China and Tianjin then
ten more ports were opened so now
essentially the traders finally finally
got what they wanted Christian
missionaries were allowed unfettered
access to all of China and after all the
arguing and moral wrangling and years
and years of discussion after all that
opium was effectively legalized in the
Treaty of Tanjung or it was legal to
sell it you know if no one wanted to buy
it you know that was another matter
during governor Davis's term the opium
monopoly for Hong Kong had been sold for
eight thousand five hundred and twenty
dollars the purchaser by the way was
Jorge Donnell think of that next time
you pass tunnel Street the fighting
between Britain and France teaming up
against China continued on in the north
you know this is all a topic for a
future podcast but it was during this
fighting that in October 1860 the French
and British troops sacked and destroyed
the old summer palace you see as payback
for some acts of violence carried out by
the Chinese side against some British
troops and diplomats the British wanted
to burn down the Forbidden City instead
it was negotiated that they you know
sacked the old summer palace instead
prince gong in one of his debut
performances is forced to sign the
convention of beijing shortly after the
old summer palace had finished burning
on March 26 1860 the awesome Kowloon
Peninsula was officially leased to
Britain the portion from boundary street
to Hong Kong was seated in perpetuity
however in 1860 s convention of Beijing
the lease was negated and Colin was
simply taken in perpetuity the New
Territories still not on the table yet
still belongs to China we'll get to that
later Russia they took some land
adjacent to Manchuria now the British
gave their lands back Russia kept theirs
this first convention of Beijing in
October 1856 settled most outstanding
issues but it will be the second
convention of Beijing in 1898 that sort
of finishes everything we'll get to that
later
okay 1850 to 1864 in China while all
this is happening between China and the
Western powers there's this little thing
going on called the Taiping rebellion
and you know 20 million or more people
are gonna die in this upheaval a lot of
them ended up finding refuge in Hong
Kong prior to handing Kowloon to the
British the Ching dynasty troops
actually were fighting these Taiping
rebels as far south as Kowloon city
bowring had said in 1858 quote my
constant thought has been how best to
prevent a large Chinese population
establishing themselves at Kowloon and
as some native population is into
spencer ball how best to keep them to
themselves and preserve the European and
American community from the injury and
inconvenience of intermixture with them
the population of Chinese that is was
nearing 85,000 by the end of the Taiping
rebellion critical mass had been reached
by the 1860s and Hong Kong's Chinese
community now joined that loose
affiliation of overseas Chinese of
Southeast Asia long base to the trading
centers visited even before the times of
jung-hwa you know the great Ming Dynasty
eunuch Admiral Hong Kong in the 1860s
this was the time of the governor sir
Hercules Robinson yes Robinson Road
Robinson his accomplishments during his
tenure September 1859 March 1865
included populum reservoir aka Hong Kong
Islands water supply and the
establishment of the venerable firm who
I used to send a check to every month
good old town gas the first gas street
lamps were lit on New Year's Day 1865
also under Robinson's tenure was the
founding of the Hong Kong and Shanghai
Banking Corporation up till this moment
in July 1864 when the bank was founded
Hong Kong hadn't a bank of its own the
trade was financed and negotiated using
you know bank branches and subsidiaries
and you know associated merchants no
local bank that was until now with the
establishment of Hong Kong Bank as it
was known or HSBC the colony now had its
own financial institution and this bank
founded with five million dollars
capital was no ordinary bank not only
was it a private institution it also
served a very large public service and
that was to serve as the quasi central
bank of the Crown Colony all of the
local Hong Kong currency was printed by
Hong Kong Bank Hong Kong Bank opened its
doors to the public on March
third 1865 Robinson's tenure as governor
was quite short during the last years of
his predecessor John Bowring the
day-to-day administration of the colony
fell into a ditch bowring had alienated
so many officials and had been so
difficult to work with
governor Hercules Robinson was able to
clean things up during his short stint
in the governor's mansion the old guard
who had been around since the earliest
days of Hong Kong you know we're all
either near they had been pensioned off
or it retired so Robinson had more or
less a clean slate to work with when he
started the task to get Kowloon all
organized and set up that fell to
Robinson because the west side of the
peninsula was where you had the best
deepwater this is where they port was
set up and where it still stands today
in fact December 8 1862 the first Hong
Kong postage stamps were issued
step-by-step all the most horrible ills
of Hong Kong were being addressed
hygiene and sewerage hospitals prisons
schools the water supply Robinson saw
improvements in construction of all
public necessities you know that care it
was all carried out during his time the
population had grown so quickly in such
a short time but a time Robinson became
governor they were eighty six thousand
nine hundred and forty one people
already living in the colony ninety
eight percent were Chinese
by the time Robinson left the
governorship in 1865 the population had
risen to a hundred and twenty-five
thousand five hundred four of these
figures there were two thousand thirty
four Europeans and one thousand six
hundred and forty-five people of color
this massive influx of Chinese into the
colony was mainly due to one thing that
was the Taiping rebellion for the first
time many Chinese were figuring out in
times of great chaos there was a safe
haven down south in Hong Kong
the Taiping rebellion wasn't the first
time of chaos and china that sent
refugees streaming into Hong Kong this
is something that would repeat from time
to time the other thing that drew so
many Chinese to Hong Kong was that in
the 1860s word spread about all the
success stories of Chinese who had gone
to Hong Kong with nothing and were now
filthy rich you know living like
mandarins with european-style comforts
many heard about this and came to strike
it rich in this boomtown called Hong
Kong the fact that China was seemingly
imploding from the Taiping rebellion was
just it was just a further inducement
the Gold Rush of 18-49 in California and
in 1851 in Australia it didn't hurt
either as thousands poured through Hong
Kong as the springboard to riches
overseas governor Hercules Robinson the
first Baron rose made left Hong Kong in
March 1865 leaving it in much better
shape than when he first found it he had
been able to restore the local
government soild name and pushed through
a whole slew of reforms and so many
Public Works carried out to the benefit
of society from the time of Sir George
Bonham the third governor to sir hurt
Robinson Hong Kong had the worst find
the naysayers and most outspoken voices
against Hong Kong were silenced or you
know had left the scene you know taking
that despondency with them the local
Chinese were on a roll and their numbers
swelled which provided a huge boost to
the economy Hong Kong also began to play
a role as a central market for China
goods exported to all the booming
overseas Chinese centres of trade
between the Malabar Coast and Macau
besides all this Britannia ruled the
waves and was the most powerful force on
earth and at least economically as
Britain grew so did Hong Kong's
importance and the local Chinese saw
nothing but dollar signs and good times
ahead
the port grew steadily during the time
from
to Robinson more and more ships called
at the port and the annual tonnage
increased steadily starting around the
mid 1860s anyone who had earlier said
that Hong Kong was doomed to failure I
had to start nibbling on those words
things were beginning to look up next
time in part 5 we'll pick up with the
governorship of Sir Richard graves
MacDonald and continue our little
historical overview of Hong Kong I know
some of you are probably looking at your
watch is thinking when's this episode
gonna end okay a few things firstly
every now and then I get emails from
young China experts who are looking for
their chance to become a part of this
world of China trade finance and
commerce if any of you out there work
for firms in China who occasionally hire
interns please contact me and I could
sue some of these educated and
enthusiastic Young Turks in your
direction you know they're looking for a
little experience and a chance to work
in China for maybe a semester or a
summer or whatever so if any listeners
in China would like me to introduce a
few good interns let me know or if you
know of some resource in China where
prospective interns can refer to let me
know also I can always be reached at
lszl a China history podcast com my
thanks in advance
same thing with English teachers I get
plenty of email from American European
and Australian citizens who are
interested to go to China to teach
English so andis in wushi and any other
teachers in China if your school is
looking to recruit ESL teachers in China
let me know or I can put a link on my
website to these listeners can contact
you directly for teaching opportunities
in China James in Florida thanks a
million for that bottle of spicy Jack
stack barbecue sauce already crack the
bottle open and sampled some went out
with my son and bought a couple french
dips at the hat in upland 86 the au jus
and poured a generous thick line
hambrosia mmm excellent that was good
I'm off to my old hometown Wednesday
next week yes the north suburbs of
Chicago if you can't tell by the accent
to go spend Thanksgiving with my fam
there so my guess is part 5 of this Hong
Kong history overview should be coming
your way sometime after the holiday
that's it for now this is Laszlo
Montgomery once again signing off from
the pleasant little town of Claremont
California nine one seven one one zero
on the easternmost edge of Los Angeles
County in the Golden State
join me next time won't you for another
exciting episode of the China history
podcast